Look at me.
Your mother is not your coach.
I am the coach.
Your mother doesn't
know what to do.
If she did,
she wouldn't bring you here.
Do you understand that?
(electric music playing)
This is where it all starts.
We are preparing
for the National competition.
Moms come from all over
to bring their children to me.
I can make you
or I can break you.
They want to be a part
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
What if she fell 13
stories down and died, huh?
MELISSA: Stop crying.
It's making it worse.
Nia.
I can't stand her!
ABBY: Go ask her nine-year-old if
she likes what she's wearing.
-I'm the mother!
-I'm an adult!
-Act like one!
-I need to go home.
Nobody lives here.
How many times
has my daughter beat your daughter?
Melissa is sneaky
and she lies.
Christi is just jealous
of me and my daughter.
I think they're both crazy.
-Because I did your makeup.
-I don't really care.
You don't even look good
when you've got makeup on.
ABBY: I'm the teacher, I'm the mentor,
I'm the professional.
If Vivi comes to me
and says that she
wants to play softball,
I'll probably slit my wrists.
(dance music playing)
SINGER:
♪Get up, get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor♪
(slow music playing)
(tapping)
Hello.
Hi, Ab.
Today's the first day
of competition season.
ABBY: How are you?
Kind of crazy in here today.
-Hi!
-You look chipper this morning.
MELISSA:
The kids are really, really excited.
I'm very excited too.
I love competition time.
-ABBY: Ready to work?
-MELISSA: We're ready to work.
-(indistinct)
-Okay.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: I am the artistic director
and the chief choreographer
of the Abby Lee Dance
Company right here
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Saute, coupe, chene, grand-jete.
People around
the country know me.
They know Abby Lee
because I produce stars.
I produce amazing,
employable dancers.
I know how to groom
these children
and raise these kids,
some of them
as if they were my old one.
One and up!
Okay, stop.
I've told you three
times in five minutes.
It's not a step-out.
It's a back handspring.
Two feet.
Do it right.
Start again. Suck it up.
I don't want to see those tears.
I'm preparing them for a career.
We do it all in my studio.
So that when they get to
real-life, they're ready.
All right, girls.
It's the first day of rehearsal
for the new competition season.
Ladies, you all know
why you're here.
You are the cream
of the crop in your age group.
And I have lots
of new ideas in store.
I am going to do something
that no other studio in the country does.
Every single competition,
we are doing a new routine.
Uh-uh-uh-uh, girls, don't
look at your mothers.
I am the coach.
I am the teacher.
Sometimes when Abby yells
it makes me laugh
because her face turns red.
I can make you
or I can break you.
KELLY: I mean, most dance studios
at least practice for six months
before they go on stage
and perform their routines.
I think it's crazy
that we're going to learn to dance
in a week and compete it.
(tense music playing)
ABBY:
At the beginning of each week,
I have kind of like
a pyramid thing
where everybody's always trying
to get to the top of that.
Everybody wants
to be on top, of course.
But you have to work for it.
It goes on behavior,
work ethic, attendance,
as well as have they
followed all the rules.
You know,
all of that goes into who's
going to be
at the top of the pyramid
and who's going to get
to compete the next weekend.
Everybody wants
to be front and center.
I hear it all the time.
CHRISTI: She puts these
kids in a pyramid. It's a nightmare.
It is a nightmare
for a child and an adult
because we have
to stand by and take it.
ABBY: And you know what?
Whoever is in the front and center.
They can't make a mistake.
They are holding
that group together.
KELLY: Everybody always
wants to be on the top.
Usually, if you're on
the top of the pyramid,
you're in the front line.
So at the top right here
I have Maddie because she
is dedicated and because
of her stellar record last year.
HOLLY: And Maddie's on the top
and Nia's on the bottom.
And I'm a little
crushed for Nia.
ABBY: Maddie, are you
ready to be front and center?
Can you handle that pressure?
MELISSA:
I always feel bad because my daughter
seems to always get on the top.
And the girls just, you know,
they don't really like it.
The moms hate it.
ABBY: Our first competition,
it's going to be
in Phoenix, Arizona.
Ladies, I chose Phoenix, Arizona
because I want you to experience
some of the best
competition teams in the country.
We are going to do
two new numbers.
A high-energy, really cute,
adorable routine
with Maddie, Chloe,
Paige, Brooke, and Nia.
And then also a trio with Maddie,
Chloe, and Paige.
Unfortunately, Mackenzie,
you're too young to compete
at West Coast Dance Explosion.
But you're still going
to go with us anyway.
Girls, we are going
to win in Phoenix.
And the next competition
we're going to win.
And that's all gearing
up for nationals.
Everything we do from this point
forward, all this training,
all this competing
is about the Nationals.
So let's get to it.
We are going to begin
the choreography.
Moms, you can be dismissed.
And, girls,
let's go to Nationals
and bring home
the winning trophy, all right?
Oh, we're back
to dance jail up here.
ABBY: Here's
what we're going to do.
I want each of you to do
either a chin stand
or like a side shoulder stand.
And we're going to hold
it for eight counts.
Let's do it from the top.
Ready and places.
Go.
Party, Party, Party,
is a theatrical jazz routine.
It's upbeat,
it's fun, classic jazz.
...two, three, four.
Hold, two, three, four.
Up and down.
MELISSA: Abby sometimes
has favorites in the studio
and my daughter just
happens to be a favorite.
(dramatic music playing)
These are my two daughters,
Maddie and Mackenzie.
Maddie's 8 and Mackenzie's 6.
And they're both dancers.
Did you have a nice day?
I definitely think my girls
are like little dolls.
I love to dress them up.
-There's you.
-MACKENZIE: There's me.
There's me. There's me.
My ex-to-be
claims that dance
has ruined our marriage.
You're going to be in it
probably a lot more even this year.
And your sister too.
Winning is everything to us.
Maddie has won everything
that she's done in the last year.
She was undefeated last year.
My boyfriend knows how much
I spend on dance
because he signs the checks, so--
(chuckles)
My ex calls me a crazy
dance mom, but I really not.
I want our kids to be happy.
That's what this is all about.
It's about the kids.
And about them shining on stage
and about them becoming stars.
Maddie doesn't have a normal life.
Her whole life
revolves around dance.
-It's constant, but she loves it.
-It's really weird.
(chuckles)
-You do cartwheels over--
-I don't care.
You always tap.
MELISSA: Abby is a star-maker.
She's going to make my daughter
be the best she can be.
And she will make her a star.
(dance music playing)
ABBY: Girls, what are you doing?
Those legs are about
as straight as Elton John.
Watch that right elbow!
ABBY: We are five days out
from competition in Phoenix
I have a lot of work to do,
kids have a lot of work to do,
and it's very stressful.
Go, leap.
CHRISTI:
Oh, my God, it's like we never left.
I've sat up here a million times before,
I've seen 1,000 dances go on,
and, you know, I'm just
kind of hoping this year turns out,
a little bit better for--for Chloe.
(dramatic music playing)
This is my daughter
Chloe, who is 9.
Yes, I am.
-(chuckles)
-(giggles)
This is her state
title that she's won
and she's also won
a national title.
CHRISTI: It's my job to make sure
all those little things
are taken care of behind the scenes
so that she can be the star
that she needs to be on stage.
Because we're so dedicated to dance,
we have missed so much.
We had our awards ceremony.
For what?
-School.
-Oh, your grades. Okay.
I do find myself at times, you know,
putting dance before school.
And it's probably not right.
I pay Abby $16,000 a year
to teach my daughter dance.
But don't tell my husband
CHLOE: This is Petite Miss
First Runner-Up 2010.
And Maddie won.
-I was her--
-Runner-up.
Runner-up.
My daughter was
usually number two,
but she was always in the mix.
But she couldn't quite,
you know, push herself over the top.
I'd say that Maddie probably
is Chloe's biggest competition.
I think that Chloe's
biggest competition's
in her own backyard.
Do you think you'll ever make
it to the top of the pyramid?
-We can hope, right?
-Yeah.
If she wants to be the best,
she has to beat the best.
And Maddie's the best.
Um, I'm not a big fan
of this new pyramid thing.
Because to me, that's more
like a Bermuda Triangle
-than a pyramid.
-WOMAN: (laughter)
-CHRISTI: Like--(scoffs)
-It's very divisive.
Someone's at the top,
someone's at the bottom.
No teacher does
that in a classroom.
Like, you're the star
pupil and you're down here.
No.
So are we surprised who's
on the top of the pyramid?
-CHRISTI: My God!
-HOLLY: No.
I would've been shocked
if someone else had been there.
-Now that would have been surprising.
-Mm-mm.
I'm not surprised
she's at the top.
It's just,
it--because my kid is the star.
She is the most
talented girl there.
And if anybody has
any problems with me,
I'm just going
to ignore it this year.
I'm here for my daughter
and I'm not here to make friends.
SINGER: ♪It's girls' night out
and I'll wear my Barbie doll...♪
ABBY: Get past them.
Switch foot. Good.
And then we're going to take
that piece from the old dance
we did last year.
And let me see
that hip, hip, hop.
Go.
This is my favorite part.
MELISSA: When all the moms
are watching our group,
it's obvious that they watch my daughter
because she is the star,
and your eyes just go directly to her.
KELLY: What's up with Maddie?
She doesn't feel well at all.
Like, she went
(retching) like this.
If she pukes,
I'm not cleaning it.
ABBY: Maddie, I know
you're not feeling well, but suck it up.
We've got to get
through this, okay?
She looks green, practically,
and pale.
That's horrible.
KELLY: She's crying.
ABBY: From the top.
five, six.
seven, eight and hip, hip,
hip, hip.
Sweetie, why--why the tears?
Because my stomach's hurting.
See that picture?
That's the position
you need to be in.
You get too emotional.
You have to worry about the win.
Got it? No mishaps.
Five, six, seven, eight.
Don't tell me she's dancing.
Switch.
I have to go check on Maddie.
It looks like she's
going to throw up.
(sobbing)
Go. Stop crying.
Stop acting like this.
MADDIE: My stomach hurts.
MELISSA: Do you feel like
you have to throw up?
You looked like you
were going to throw up.
No.
Okay, stop crying.
It's making it worse.
-I want to go home.
-What do you mean?
You never leave dance class.
No. My stomach just started to hurt.
I don't know why.
You never miss dance.
(dramatic music playing)
MELISSA: You looked like
you were going to throw up.
No.
(sobs)
Okay, stop crying.
It's making it worse.
Maddie wasn't feeling well.
Her stomach hurt really bad.
She was crying.
I can't stand
a child that's sick.
-I want to go home.
-What do you mean?
You never leave dance class.
Maddie is a perfectionist
in everything she does.
You never miss dance.
Let's go.
She got sick, maybe
two years ago at dance.
But she's never
missed a day of dance.
(dance music playing)
SINGER: ♪...into the circus rock♪
♪Everyone is passing
round the Aftershock♪
♪Party, party, party,
hope this lasts forever♪
♪Feel better and better♪
MELISSA: Maddie works so hard because
to make it to Broadway
or to a TV show,
you really need to focus on dance
all the time so we never stop.
ABBY: Up, down, down.
Switch, split, step in.
Ball change.
(dance-pop music playing)
ABBY:
Three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
We are only three days away
from competition in Phoenix.
This week, Maddie,
Chloe, and Paige
are doing a trio
in the musical theater genre.
Do I understand?
Yes. Knees together, Paige.
You're bowlegged.
You need to fix that.
Five, six, seven, go.
(dance-pop music playing)
Sharper, Paige. Hit, hit.
You're tall, you're skinny,
you're a beautiful girl.
You can do better than this.
Focus on your technique.
Shoulders down,
legs straight, feet pointed. Let's go.
ABBY: People think I'm tough.
And I guess I am.
But I'd rather be the one
that makes your child cry
in the privacy of my studio,
instead of crying in front of 800
people at an open audition.
Sloppy foot. You're right in the middle
of the stage, Paige.
SINGER: ♪My 15 minutes of fame♪
♪I want it♪
♪My 15 minutes of fame♪
-ABBY: Stop.
-SINGER: ♪...I want it♪
♪I want it♪
ABBY: I want to be the first
one that tells them.
I want to fix their
shoulders and their cage,
distended neck, their turnout,
everything that's wrong
before somebody else
in the professional world
has to tell them.
Paige, come here.
I'd have your head
on a platter, yes?
Do you understand?
All right.
Man up. Get out there.
If I see flaws that haven't been
corrected...
I correct them.
That's my job.
And sometimes that's offensive.
I think that's where
the tough comes in.
But it's like tough love.
Here's my baby.
Oh, don't cry angel.
-Abby was so mean.
-Ssh.
It's okay. Don't cry.
Don't worry about it.
Abby was yelling at me.
KELLY: These are my two daughters.
This is Paige.
She's 10 and Brooke is 13.
ABBY: Improv.
One, two.
KELLY: I'm very proud
of my daughters.
Brooke has been winning awards
since she was six years old.
And Paige also.
Last year she won
first place for interview.
I'm going to show
you guys something.
This is mommy when she
was your age, Brooke.
I was a dancer when I was younger.
I have been with Abby
since I was two and 1/2.
I have danced
with her for 37 years.
And I think that's
why when I had two girls,
I couldn't wait
for them to be dancers.
I want to try
competitive cheerleading.
Do you know how many
kids in your class
would like to be Junior
Miss Dance of Pennsylvania?
I don't want Brooke to quit
dance because she's 13,
and that's when all
the trouble starts.
I mean, when you were younger,
you used to get
first place all the time.
Like, does it matter to
you that you're not getting
first and second anymore?
Not really.
I hope that my daughters
appreciate everything
I do for them for the dance.
I mean, I put a lot of time in it.
And a lot of times
they're mean to me
and don't show me
that they appreciate it.
But I think deep down inside
I know that they appreciate it.
That's her.
(chuckles) That's her.
KIDS: Four, five, six, seven, eight.
HOLLY: I'm optimistic that Nia
will have a great year.
I want nothing
but the best for her.
But I also know that Abby's
looking at last year's
track record.
Nia!
Close and taut arms!
HOLLY: I do worry that Nia
won't have a fresh slate.
New year, same old, same old.
Nia has a lot of confidence.
And I think Nia has
a lot of ability and talent.
My goal for Nia this year
is really for Nia to grow as a dancer.
Hi, Ab, this is Holly.
I went to Carnegie-Mellon
for my masters.
And I'm currently
at University of Pennsylvania.
And I'm also a principal.
People say I look
like Michelle Obama.
That's awesome to be
equated to the First Lady.
I'll take that
compliment any day.
Absolutely.
I expect Nia this season
to have an amazing year in dance.
Ideally, we would love
for her to have a title win.
This is my crown,
but I just bought it
because I had to have one.
I haven't won one in dance.
You haven't won one yet,
but it's coming, right?
-Yeah.
-It's coming.
Nia is not a featured dancer
and that continues to be an issue.
And I don't want Nia
to always be the backup dancer.
ABBY: You're going over there.
It's forward!
HOLLY: Abby can be tough.
She knows her business
very, very well.
I think she produces excellent answers,
but she demands a lot.
-(sobbing)
-Okay.
Nia, Nia, Let me see you.
I am not a doormat and people
cannot walk over me
and they cannot walk over my child.
And that's where
we draw the line.
Come on, give me a hug.
I love you.
One day it will be
her turn to shine.
CATHY: Pull. I have no hands, pull.
Okay. Oh, my goodness.
It is--hi.
Oh, that hand's wet.
-Oh, that's okay.
-Sorry.
-Hi, sweetie.
-Hi.
-What's your name?
-Vivi.
Hi, Vivi.
We want to sign up for classes
and we want to do competition.
Dance has been in my life since
I've been three years old.
My mom danced, my grandma danced,
so Vivi has to dance.
I think you like dance?
Five, six, seven, eight.
Get it up.
Two, three.
I own Candy Apples Dance Center.
I have been a dance
instructor since 1998.
Four, five.
This is what you
keep forgetting.
Why do you keep forgetting this?
Just twist, twist.
Ugh, ugh.
I am absolutely
loaded with quirks.
(slow music playing)
CATHY: I love bunnies.
They're soft and they're
cuddly and they're cute.
I like carrots too.
I think carrots are neat
because they go hand-in-hand
with bunnies.
Pink is my ultimate
favorite color.
And I like to say that
pink is not a color,
but it is a way of life.
I don't like pink.
CATHY: I'm an older mom...
(laughing)
...who is very interested in--
Am I allowed to say it?
Botox and Restylane.
It's important that I
look good because I don't
want people to think
that I'm Vivi's grandma.
You'll like me.
I'm flamboyant and I'm funny.
But just don't push my buttons
and we won't have any altercations.
(piano music playing)
With Vivi being six and I've
coached her now
since she's been 18 months old.
I think that it's time
that we bring somebody else in.
Because if I say
something to Vivi
and she's going
to bust out in tears,
my heart is going to break.
Because I don't want
to do that to Vivi.
But if another coach
says to her, look, Vivi,
you've got to straighten
your knee on that, Y-scale,
and that's--
you have no options.
I own Candy Apples Dance Center.
-Does that ring a bell?
-Oh, so you're the dance teacher.
-I am the dance teacher.
-I'm sorry.
-And this is your daughter?
-This is my daughter.
So you're here as the mom.
I am here as the mom.
-Not the dance teacher.
-No. I'm--
You're not looking for a job?
-Oh, no. Yet...
-Okay. Okay. All right.
We just wanted
to give her a boost.
I would like to see her compete
with you this weekend.
This weekend?
This weekend.
Um, we can do it.
-We can do it.
-Can't we?
We--you go, girlfriend.
We can do it.
ABBY: Mom's come from all over
to bring their children to me.
They want to be a part
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
They come for me.
You want to do tricks first?
You want to lay on
your tummy and show me
touch your future head?
CATHY: I see Vivi having
some talent.
And she's extremely flexible.
She's got a beautiful point.
I'm hoping she
has a dancer's body.
ABBY: How about your front limber?
-Uh.
-ABBY: Handstand?
-To a backbend?
-No.
No?
CATHY: We actually prepared
a little piece for you to see.
It's just a little duo
that we started this year,
but she'll just do
it as a solo for you.
-Is that okay?
-Okay, that's--
you want to do that?
(dance music playing)
ABBY: Cathy came into my studio
and her daughter Vivi auditioned.
I thought it was ridiculous.
She demanded that she be in
this competition this weekend.
That's not realistic.
There is no way Vivian
is ready to compete this weekend.
I need to work with her
a lot more before she's ready.
Here's the thing.
And you know this from
having your own school.
-CATHY: Yes.
-I have people
that want to be in the Dance Company
just to get the outfit.
The money doesn't matter,
here's my kid, do whatever you want.
I need mom to step
out of the picture.
So I'm going to be
the teacher, all right?
You're going to look at me.
Maybe it's just time
for me to be the mom
and for somebody
else to be the coach.
ABBY: Mom,
I'll take you out front
-and we'll get you signed up and ready.
-Okay. Oh.
ABBY: And you're
sure we're good on this?
We're going to get signed up?
-Yeah.
-What do you say?
Go give her a big hug.
CATHY: I think that Abby is the one that's
going to really be making
out when it comes to
me and Vivi being a packaged deal.
So I may be just able
to interject with that one little,
oh, maybe a ciseaux
here would work.
-All right?
-Okay.
-Thank you.
-I'll see you soon, Vivi.
I'm going to be able
to bring things to the table.
A five, six, seven, eight.
And one and two.
Five, six, seven, eight.
And One--
Make sure that you're
supporting foot is turning out.
I want everyone to watch.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Dawn's daughter was called
into my class for a routine
that she was picked special for.
And she had socks
and a T-shirt on.
I don't care if you're taping.
I'm going to kill her.
ABBY: They were
to wear tights and a leotard.
I made two other children
change their clothes
because it's accurate.
We're doing a lot on our knees.
And they have to be
in their bare feet.
May I speak to you a minute?
No, I'm in rehearsal.
I want to speak to you.
You don't throw my
kid out of class.
I paid for class.
She's not dressed appropriately.
DAWN: I'm looking at every
single kid out here, Abby.
They all look like children!
Isn't that crazy,
that children look like children?
She's dressed appropriately.
You're a minister.
Act like one.
Yes, I am a minister!
Let's play the Bible game, Abby.
When Jesus saw things that
were wrong, he went after it!
And I'll tell you what,
you're not going to do this to my kid!
Out of the room.
Out.
Regan? Goodbye.
You're not throwing her out.
Hell, yes, I am.
And you with her.
-Go.
-No, you're not!
Yes.
Every week we put the trash out.
Go.
Then take yourself out
because you're the biggest
piece of trash there is!
ABBY: You cannot take
acrobatic class in socks.
I told you the clothes to take
are your two-piece costume.
There's a big difference.
How can you remember that,
and you can't remember
to turn your feet out, huh?
That's pathetic.
Go somewhere else.
Take your money, take
your kid, take your socks.
Find another school.
Does it not hit in your
head that maybe you're wrong.
-No.
-Do you not get it?
I don't get it.
I know I'm right.
-Why are you right?
-It's my building.
-My name is on the front of it.
-So what!
You keep telling her
how stupid she is.
ABBY: She's not stupid.
She just can't read.
You know--
ABBY: The apple doesn't
fall far from the tree.
DAWN: Oh!
So you're saying I'm stupid?
Well, are you?
(screams) (indistinct)
I've got more education
than you will ever have.
Than you will ever have
because I went to school.
Unfortunately, you didn't.
May I have your phone?
Call the police!
Go for it!
-ABBY: I'm sorry, girls.
-DAWN: Go for it!
There's a psycho
in every batch.
A psycho.
Yes, her name's Abigail Miller.
Hi, I need an--
a police at 7123 Saltsburg.
Are you okay, Dawn?
No, no, no.
Are you okay?
-No, I'm not!
-Ssh.
I have a--
a parent that's out of control.
I can't stand her.
(dramatic music playing)
Call the police!
Go for it!
Dawn came into
the studio screaming.
She just was going
from room to room.
Pardon?
She does not have weapons.
Just her mouth.
She was just at the brink.
I don't know
if she went outside.
I walked into a room.
My senior company
is warming up in another room
and I went into there.
(whispers) Turn that foot out.
-ABBY: Bye, Regan.
-Bye.
ABBY:
See you (indistinct)
Let's go, guys.
Let's get in the other room.
Thank you.
I'm sorry you had to see that.
(police sirens wailing)
OFFICER: We just want you
to leave the property.
-DAWN: (indistinct)
-OFFICER: All right, you got to go.
Take your daughter
somewhere else then,
if you don't like
the dance company here.
(quirky music playing)
A little shaky.
I have to get myself together.
Get back into rehearsal
and worry about the competition
this weekend.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Every weekend we go
to a new competition.
All this competing
is about the Nationals.
This week happens
to be Phoenix, Arizona.
(dance music playing)
ABBY: West Coast Dance Explosion
is an amazing
convention and competition.
It's a big deal.
Whoa!
The stage, the lights, the sound,
everything is top-notch.
And they're very,
very qualified judges.
(applauding and cheering)
All right. Let's get this luggage moving.
CHRISTI: When we walk in anywhere
for a dance competition,
we're like the glammed-up
Beverly Hillbillies.
I mean, we've got Dream Duffels
and rolling makeup cases
and light-up makeup mirrors.
ABBY: Don't
just stand there.
Let's--let's go, ladies.
Okay.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
No, no, no, no.
She has two pieces
of luggage, Abby.
She brings it, she carries it.
Now, remember, the competition
starts right now
when you walk into this building.
Do you understand me?
Let's go.
CHRISTI: Every time the Abby
Lee Dance Company
walks into a competition
they're representing a legacy--
kids who've danced before
them that were amazing.
And so much is at stake
because we don't
want to be the ones who lose.
ABBY: I'm Abby Lee Miller,
I need to check in.
(laughter)
Ssh, ladies.
Library voices.
Okay, listen to me.
I don't want any flip-flops.
I don't want booty shorts
walking through here.
You make sure you're covered
and dressed appropriately.
Do you understand?
CHRISTI: And then Abby
starts with her rules.
(growling) Girls.
ABBY: You get
your room numbers right now.
(applause and cheering)
WOMAN: We're going to get (indistinct)
(interposing voices)
CHRISTI: Ha! That's where I'm going!
This is where I'm going.
We were here first, Christi.
Settle down there, hot pants.
All right.
(indistinct)
You have this.
HOLLY: Whenever
we go to competition,
it's a whirlwind
of hair, makeup, mayhem.
Whose going
to get the best spot?
Who's hair is going
to get done first?
Who's going to look the best?
It is beyond crazy.
(interposing voices)
-WOMAN: Oh, my goodness.
-Hey, how are we doing, guys?
-Good.
-I hate this last-minute crap, ladies.
Okay, where are the hats?
Can I see the hats?
-Looks nice.
-Yeah.
-(interposing voices)
-CHRISTI: Look what Christi did.
Oh, oh, okay.
Listen, get them in hair
and makeup and get ready to go.
Okay, tell me what you
want me to do and I'll do it.
KELLY: The fact that
the hats weren't done an hour
before we were going on
stage is very typical.
We are always stoning
costumes five minutes
before we go on
or are doing the hats.
And everything
is always last minute.
ABBY: Same thing. It's over and over
every time we compete.
I told you about the nails.
I don't care if you have fake
nails, but the nail polish--
the white draws
attention to your hands.
And everybody doesn't have it.
Girls--
I told her I wasn't taking it off.
So why?
Because I just paid
to have them done.
-But you--
-It's a French.
It's not like she has pink,
purple nail polish.
I don't think this is where
we're supposed to be going.
I think I was supposed
to be talking about the group...
-Well, whatever. But...
-...and the dance.
-...you brought it up.
-It's not whatever.
-You brought it up.
-It's not whatever. Right.
You need to listen to me.
KELLY: But then you can give me
the $20 to take them off
of her nails and off
of her sister's nails.
Can you hand me my purse?
Give me 20 bucks.
(whispers)
Hey, do you want to get a drink?
(indistinct chatter)
CHRISTI: Let's sit down and have a drink.
Nobody will know where we are.
We're missing in action.
If she screams at those
kids one more time,
I'm going to lose it.
I know you need
to get Maddie seen.
I understand.
That's like the whole goal of all of us
-doing anything is for that.
-Oh, my God!
I am not getting
Chloe's headshot.
You spend $30 billion
to dance for her
and then you get
(bleep) all over.
-Oh, cheers.
-KELLY: To dance.
CHRISTI: To dance.
(chuckles)
(gasps)
(laughing loudly)
Wait, can I have another glass
of wine real quick?
Excuse me.
(laughs)
WOMAN: I know!
ABBY: I cannot believe it.
These moms are ridiculous.
They are in a bar drinking
and their kid needs
to be on stage in 20 minutes.
Bad Parenting 101.
-WOMAN: Good Lord!
-Hey, what's going on?
We're having a cocktail.
-Am I babysitting?
-Do you want a drink?
No, no.
I don't drink while I'm working.
Are you too good to go?
-Yeah, we're going to leave in a minute.
-All right.
Go away.
(laughs)
We're double fisted.
It's not good.
I don't double fist
when I'm with my kids.
I double fist when
I'm in college.
ABBY: Okay.
Oh, you guys.
You're beautiful.
Let's go. Just--let's go.
Let's go.
-All right. Goodbye, you guys.
-Let's go.
Oh, my God, we're not
even allowed to talk.
-No.
-What?
Don't--no more makeup, honey.
You like that makeup mirror?
All right. Let's go in here.
Let's check out our
kids and let's go back.
KELLY: Hello!
I was wondering
where you guys went.
-Okay.
-Where were you?
We was at the bar
making friends.
I should've guessed
that's where you were.
KELLY: Brooke, stay right here.
I'm going to do a couple
of curls in her hair
and then a couple
of curls in your hair.
I think I'm going
to hold these hats hostage.
And you guys each have
to buy me one cocktail each
for making the hats.
KELLY: Oh, kiss my (bleep).
I already give you
your cocktail today.
I'm done.
-(sizzling)
-(gasps)
Oh, my God!
Are you okay?
What happened?
Oh, my God!
She walked right into
the curling iron.
Oh, Paige.
She walked right into
the curling iron.
HOLLY: Oh, sweetie!
(interposing voices)
It's okay.
-It's okay.
-What happened?
She walked into
the curling iron.
Look.
When we were cleaning
up for the competition,
I was putting away
my curling iron
and I was wrapping up the cord.
And I don't know if I turned
or Paige bent down.
Somehow my curling
iron burnt Paige on the arm.
Here's some ice.
And here, use this.
Oh.
KELLY: The kids and the moms
were just great.
Trying to help her out,
make her laugh,
and, you know,
make her feel better.
You know, Holly was
getting her ice.
WOMAN: MacKenzie.
KELLY: It really got her good.
It did really get it good.
It's okay.
You're going to live.
I think it made Paige
feel a lot better.
I feel so bad.
Hey Paige...
Where's my--
if it makes you feel
better.
I don't have any underwear on.
-(screams)
-(laughter)
(electronic dance music playing)
ABBY: Let's go.
(applause)
(cheering)
ABBY: Today is the competition
and it's going to be hectic.
I have a trio
and a group number.
ANNOUNCER: And next up to the center
stage, it'll be Junior Jazz.
ABBY: The judges are going to be
looking for flawless technique,
innovative choreography,
perfect precision,
and fabulous costumes.
See those girls down there?
Look at those girls
with the legs?
You're going to be against them.
So you need to step it up.
We're getting ready
for the group dance
and I am under a lot of stress.
For parents, this is
an after-school activity.
For me, it is my livelihood.
Is it in?
If it's not in, when you're
ready to go on that stage,
you tell Linda
Diamond or somebody
backstage that you
need a bobby pin.
And they'll give you one.
Do you understand me?
Open your mouth and ask
somebody if you need something
backstage.
Chances are they
have it laying--
or there's probably 10 bobby
pins laying on the floor.
It fell out when she did
her side aerial, it went down.
I know. But that's dangerous.
What if she was at
Radio City Music Hall?
And the thing was open
for the ice skating rink to come out,
and she did a side aerial
and fell 13 stories down
and died, huh?
Let's go girls.
I may be perceived as a little edgy
in my teaching methods.
However, when you walk into my classroom,
it's a professional environment.
And I'm going to give it to you straight
just like you're going to
get it in the real world.
Pay attention to me, yes?
Yes?
So turn so tight, right around yourself,
and get down there.
The one person that
can mess us up backstage is Abby
because she just always comes back
and like frustrates us.
She's like don't forget your dances!
Straighten your legs,
point your feet, and you'll be fine.
And so it kind of makes us really nervous.
And so we don't really like
her being backstage with us.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: And next up to the stage
will be Junior Jazz Group,
"Party, Party, Party".
Here we go! Go, go, go, go!
("Party, Party, Party" playing)
(cheers and applause)
SINGER: ♪ It's girls' night out
and I'll wear my Barbie doll heels ♪
♪ Can't wait to blow up the world
and make Cadillac deals ♪
♪ Turn up Pandora and let's pump it up ♪
♪ Ah-ha ♪
♪ Pre-gaming baby would you fill my cup? ♪
ABBY: Yeah!
Smooth that out.
SINGER:
♪ Can't wait to blow up the world ♪
♪ And make Cadillac deals ♪
ABBY: Oh, sloppy.
She's late.
They don't know what they're doing.
SINGER: ♪ Pre-gaming baby
would you fill my cup? ♪
ABBY: Hands.
One.
Come on, Brooke.
Over heel's, lovely.
Foot's on (indistinct)
People clap because (indistinct)
Come on.
MELISSA: There we go.
Good girl!
What I'm thinking about is how
much talent my daughter has
and how beautiful she is in that dance.
I just find so much joy
when I see her dancing on stage.
And I know she's going
to be a star someday.
SINGER: ♪ We'll party, party ♪
♪ We'll party, party, bae ♪
ABBY: That's good, Chloe.
Do it, do it, do it, Chloe.
Step it up!
She's late.
Late.
(cheers and applause)
KELLY: Even though the number was easy,
they still did great.
And our girls always win.
No matter where we go,
it seems like we place.
(dramatic music playing)
Okay.
So here we go.
We're going to start with the juniors.
Our Junior Musical Theater.
A third place,
with a score of 274 goes to...
"Party, Party, Party".
A second place, with a score
of 275 goes to "Fashion Week"--
I was undefeated,
and I won 11 competitions.
And I don't really know
what it's like to lose.
Like, I never got third and lower.
I've always got second in first.
CHLOE: Losing never really feels good.
It's not the greatest feeling.
ABBY: I really need these girls
to get their act together.
If we end up third place
at the next few competitions,
we're going to be doomed at Nationals.
CHRISTI: "Party, Party, Party"
was such a disappointment.
Its win with the trio or go home losers.
We only have till the next number.
We need to hurry.
-HOLLY: Why did it have to be raining!
-I wore the worst shoes!
-Is it good?
-Yes, it was good.
You did great.
Go. Fast.
As fast as you can. What am I doing?
What am I doing? What am I doing?
They have never lost ever.
We are not used to this.
It doesn't feel good.
We're used to coming in and winning.
I get a little nervous about the trio now.
The pressure's on.
They're well prepared.
The only thing they need to worry about
is their performance.
So if they go out and do it
like you know they can do it,
they'll do well.
We're still a little nervous.
Oh!
Look at all those kids!
(indistinct chatter)
(cheers and applause)
("15 Minutes Of Fame" playing)
All right, Chloe, let's see it.
Good turn! Good job.
Chloe's headband
is falling in front of her face!
-Oh, my God!
-(laughs)
Oh, my God! I'm going to lose it!
Oh! She can't see!
Pull your headband up, please, Darling?
(bleep).
CHRISTI: Chloe's doing her trio
and her headpiece is falling off.
Oh, my God!
She can't even see right now.
(cheers and applause)
Oh, no! It's right in front of her mouth.
Poor girl!
SINGER: ♪My 15 minutes of fame ♪
♪ I want it ♪
(cheers and applause)
You did great.
She's not nervous at all! it was awesome!
I know. You did great! (indistinct)
You, you, you, get off stage.
You, I will deal with later. Go!
CHRISTI: What's your deal?
ABBY: We need to talk.
(tense music playing)
It came forward.
What did you want me to do?
You're in the bar having a drink
and her headpiece is falling off.
-Her headpiece didn't fall off.
-ABBY: Yes, it did.
It came forward.
It didn't fall on the stage.
She's fine.
She's fine?
It's my number. It's my name.
It was fine.
They didn't miss a beat.
(cheers and applause)
It really means a lot to me
because it feels really good
and it feels like, oh, yay!
I never get tired of winning.
ANNOUNCER: Okay, teens, listen up.
Starting off, in duo-trio, a second place,
they score 266 goes to "Money".
Abby, mistakes happen.
-We're human.
-You are.
Mistakes like that don't happen to me.
I'm not going to have
you treat me like this.
I'm an adult.
Act like one!
-Get your act into shape.
-You act like one!
You're screaming at me
in front of all these people.
ABBY: You screwed up.
If you're going to come
on the trip, she's yours.
Stay out of the bar,
stay in the dressing room.
When she goes on stage,
the headpiece is sewed in the head.
Do you understand?
-Next time, have it right.
-Yeah.
I'm not going to put up with this.
Remember, I pay your bills.
You work for me.
I pay you to teach my daughter dancing.
I'm not going to have you
treat me like this.
Our remaining overall high score
duo-trio with a score
of 282 out of a 300.
First place goes to Abby Lee
Dance Company, "Pin-Up Girls!"
(cheers and applause)
MADDIE: We won first place with that trio,
and that means we were the best.
Whoo!
It will never happen again.
-It better not.
-This conversation is over.
-I'm done.
-And you pay your bill late, by the way.
-CHRISTI: I do not pay my bills late.
-Yes, you do.
-CHRISTI: We'll talk.
ABBY: Christi is going to be
the death of me.
That woman is going to cause her child
to be expelled from my studio.
CHRISTI: I don't know how much longer
I can put up with Abby.
I don't care if Chloe ever dances again.
I can't put up with this woman anymore.
(tense music playing)